Add EIP: A Protocol for ERC20 Tokens Which Released Based On Predefined Periods Controlled by Smart Contracts (#8348)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-4377.md

---

> eip: 4377

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eip: 
```
ERC numbers are issued by editors & associates.  They are now sequential.

Once you have created a PR in the ERC repo a number will be manually issued.

> title: A Protocol for ERC20 Tokens Which Released Based On Predefined Periods Controlled by Smart Contracts

Reviewer 2: Titles must be 45 characters or less. Please rework it to be more succinct.

description: Controlled by smart contracts, tokens can be linearly released based on the predefined period.
author: Roy Davies(roydj2021@gmail.com), Ali Kaya (ali.kayatur747@gmail.com)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc4377-a-protocol-for-erc20-tokens-which-released-based-on-predefined-periods-controlled/19305
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2024-03-08
---

## Abstract

> A protocol for ERC20 tokens which released based on predefined periods controlled by smart contracts, enhancing the ERC repository. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A protocol for ERC20 tokens which released based on predefined periods controlled by smart contracts. 
```

> The smart contract allows token released based on predefined periods, enabling lock token balances and gradually release tokens.

Reviewer 2: Re-states same information as the line above:

```suggestion
```

> Our team has introduced a novel “Sorter” mechanism in this protocol, which automatically consolidates multiple transfers in smart contracts. This feature ensures token release based on different transfer times while minimizing gas fees significantly. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This proposal introduces a novel “Sorter” mechanism in this protocol, which automatically consolidates multiple transfers in smart contracts. This feature ensures token release based on different transfer times while minimizing gas fees significantly. 
```

Furthermore, the protocol supports customizable features such as:

> Customized White List: Specified addresses or contracts are exempted from the above features and locking restrictions, allowing this protocol to be widely and properly applied. For example, Uniswap contracts, treasury addresses.... etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customized Whitelist: Specified addresses or contracts are exempted from the above features and locking restrictions, allowing this protocol to be widely and properly applied. Examples include Uniswap contracts, and treasury addresses.
```

You might want to explain how these examples are relevant.

## Motivation

> The motivation behind this protocol is to enrich the ERC repository. By allowing ERC20 tokens to have custom linear release schedules, lock-up mechanisms, and whitelisting, this protocol can find applications in scenarios such as MEME tokens, games, DAO organizations, and options trading.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By allowing ERC-20 tokens to have custom linear release schedules, lock-up mechanisms, and whitelisting, this protocol can find applications in scenarios such as MEME tokens, games, DAO organizations, and options trading.
```

> ## Specification

Reviewer 2: You don't have any specifications. What is an implementer supposed to do?

This protocol introduces improvements in the following areas:

1. ERC20 Tokens and Linear Release Functionality.
2. Online Representation of ERC20 Balances.
3. Lock-Up Functionality for ERC20 Tokens.
4. "Sorter" Algorithm.

> 5. Low-Cost Swap Algorithm.

Reviewer 2: This should be in the Motivation section.

> ## Rationale

Reviewer 2: This doesn't explain the choices you have made for this EIP, and code block should generally be included in the Reference Implementation. Use this section to help the reader understand why you have done something in plain English.

There are four major improvements in this protocol:

* ERC20 Tokens and Linear Release Functionality.

>  canReleaseAmount = total * (currentTimestamp - startTime) / duration;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 `canReleaseAmount = total * (currentTimestamp - startTime) / duration;`
```

        for (uint i = 0; i < 7; i++) {
            VestInfo storage info = userVestInfo[account][i];
            if (info.startTime == 0 || block.timestamp <= info.startTime || info.total == info.released) {
                continue;
            }
            uint canRelease;
            if (uint128(block.timestamp) >= info.startTime + duration) {
                canRelease = info.total - info.released;
            } else {
                uint temp = info.total * (block.timestamp - info.startTime) / duration;
                canRelease = temp - info.released;
            }
            canReleaseTotal += canRelease;
            info.released += canRelease;
        }

        if (canReleaseTotal > 0) {
            _Owned[account] += canReleaseTotal;
        }
    }
    
    
    
}   

```

## Security Considerations

## Extendable period Locks 
Users or developers should be aware of potential period Locks, where the duration and period time can be modified through protocols. Users or protocols should check the duration and period times carefully before trading or lending with others.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

> ## Citation
> 
> Please cite this document as:
> 
> Roy Davies(roydj2021@gmail.com), Ali Kaya (ali.kayatur747@gmail.com), "ERC-4377: A Protocol for ERC20 Tokens Which Released Based On Predefined Periods Controlled by Smart Contracts [DRAFT]," Ethereum Improvement Proposals, no. 4377, March 2024. [Online serial]. Available: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4377.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This section will be generated automatically when rendered.
